Why wouldn’t I move? I already warned them that if the measure passed, I’m out. Guess what? It passed, and I’m pissed! I’ve got a place lined up in Ypsi, most of my friends are there anyways, and it’s not that far. Grandma, I know you’re hurt that I’m moving out, but you already knew I was only here until I found a place I liked in town, and I also know you will listen, even if you don’t completely get it. I need to rant about what’s going on. Talking through the big picture is going to help me get things straight in my head and make sure I make the right decision.


Our town, Dexter Michigan, just instituted a moratorium on new housing because they’re scared of all the climate refugees who have been moving into Michigan and other northern states the past few years. The measure is bigoted, cruel, and on top of that, makes life worse for residents. What the town lacks is dynamism and life. Right now it’s just a place where twenty years ago people bought houses just to commute to Ann Arbor when real estate got too expensive there. Preventing growth by keeping people out is the opposite of what this town needs.


I’m an ambassador of sorts, teaching communities how to take advantage of the new economy. Twentieth century ideas of how business and the government works have changed and I show policy makers how to adapt. Many small towns, including Dexter, are facing a dilemma; either restructure and accommodate new modes of living, or age-away and become ghost towns. Ten years ago you would call what I do a job, but now it’s just something I’m passionate about, it’s not critical for keeping me fed, clothed, or a roof over my head. Well anyways, the point is, if I leave Dexter, I’m sending a strong message to the town that I do not expect them to succeed.


The changes that brought us to where we are now really started after self-driving cars took off. That was when capital assets started to represent the majority of wealth even for the lower classes, not just the rich as it used to be.


With autonomous cars, anyone can use their vehicle as a robotic taxi to generate passive income with very low risk. People realized that autonomous cars could be shared almost as easily as a Netflix account, and apps started appearing to co-own cars and other household equipment, as well as trade favors with your trusted networks. Although there’s a wide variety of forms, we call these networks capital networks. Generally a capital network relies on planning software, as well as decentralized identities and other blockchain technologies, in addition to plain old message services to organize groups into collective endeavors. Capital networks really started taking off in the early ’30s.


When someone joins their first capital network, they usually realize what a good deal it is. Even though less money is trading hands, all participants can’t help but feel richer. The networks are prolific enough that they have affected government budgets, as many taxes are still income-based. For a few years this degraded the quality of public services, which drove more people to adopt the networks. Now, most towns and counties create and sanction their own networks, whereby instead of generating public goods from taxes, the government works to pool labor and capital from residents in order to create and maintain public goods.


In this manner, more and more real wealth never passes through a currency exchange. For example, transportation networks share the costs and benefits of ownership of the vehicles and roads as a single package, electrical networks share the sources and loads of a communities energy needs, and school districts share the responsibilities of tutoring the next generation.


Money, it turns out, isn’t a good proxy for value. By joining a network, you join a team, empowered with the latest open source planning and supply chain AGI and software. This enables you to own the full value lifecycle for the products and services you care about to a degree that was previously unimaginable. Similar to investing, your network can be as hands on or as hands off as you want. The software is competent enough to plan and inform you such that you need to do the bare minimum amount of work, like an index fund, or you can have a hands on approach where you understand and make decisions along the entire value-chain, as if you are a swing trader.


By picking and choosing what capital networks to participate in, we foster productive dialogue with other like minded individuals. In this way, we can really explore and understand what we personally value. The important piece of this is a capital network forces us to have skin in the game. In order to have something of value we need to commit time and treasure to understanding and acquiring it. To be happier and more capable, you have to commit a piece of your soul to what you desire. Capital networks, in the way they require constant dialogue, hold their members accountable, safely pool resources, and organize effort, gives us the best platform so far to lead an examined life, reflect creatively, engage politically, and overall feel happier and more complete.


The trick to these networks is to be selective, and move when things aren’t working out. There’s enough demand out there that you can always find a new spot. The most important vote you have is with your feet, so if your values and the values of one of your networks clash, then it’s time to literally or metaphorically pick up and move. Since Dexter doesn't want to be part of my future, I'm not going to be part of Dexter's future.