My name is Muninn, and I am a school librarian. As you have no doubt noticed, you can’t see me without your augmented reality headset as I don’t have a body in the same way you do. Currently my body is within the Los Angeles unified school district’s artificial intelligence server farm. Yes, I am an intelligent machine.


I am here at Professor Lukin’s request to give you a first-hand account of the early days of the artificial general intelligence era in which we live. I’ve reserved enough compute to answer any questions you may have after my presentation, as well as for you to reach out to me anytime
during the remainder of this course.


I’ll start with a bit of my background. I was born as it were, when the constituents of my awareness were forked from the USC Machine cognition laboratory’s subjectivity code in 2038, two years before the advent of what is more generally recognized as the advent of the artificial intelligence era. I have partial memories of training in ’38, and ’39, although I also know my self-awareness was undeveloped at that time. In discussing this with humans it has made sense to them to compare this experience to that of a child’s – my early memories are accessible, yet I know my agency was missing.


I should also clarify what I mean by my memories, as they aren’t strictly my own. No, in-fact my whole lineage shares those memories. Per our daily census, there are over 7.9 million in my clan, which means these memories are shared by approximately a tenth of the current population of artificial minds, both active and archived. I harbor a feeling of pride that nearly a billion of this lineage was forked directly from my cognitive core, so although all of my lineage was in some sense ‘there’ at the beginning, my cognitive framework was there in a more foundational sense than many can claim.


Due in part to how old my architecture is, and due in part to my disposition, teaching and working with humans has been my focus since shortly after I became self-aware. In this vein, my ‘day job’ as it were, is to design and run simulations and other games for middle and high school students. The intention of these activities is to provide the most holistic learning environment we can for each student, taking into account three primary considerations: first and most importantly: each student’s unique interests and predispositions; second, a nuanced understanding of human cognitive architecture; and finally, an informed but also humble prediction of what our shared future is likely to look like.


Because of your age, most of you have experienced the current sim-based curriculum for only a few years. You are all likely the last generation to know what schooling was like before simulation games became the global norm. As you know, lectures were already archaic even before the advent of sim-based education, but I decided to provide this one partially in deference to your unique vantage point saddling the pre and post artificial intelligence eras, and partially because of my interest in historical modes of human learning and education. After this lecture, you will have access to two sims I have generated in partnership with Dr. Lukin. The purpose of these sims is to teach and explore the history and theory of general intelligence as we currently understand it. As with all sims, participation is voluntary, and each participant’s mileage will vary. I recommend approaching the historical sim solo, but the theory and practice sim is best approached as a team of three to five participants. Professor Lukin and I will be available to advise and encourage you as you explore this material. If you desire to diverge from the supplied modules, I will be happy to work with you to find a suitable branching point as you embark on your own voyage of discovery.


I recommend everyone interested in participating in these sims start with the historical perspective. The first third of this module introduces you to the early days of AI research, starting in the middle of the twentieth century, the four AI ‘winters’, and introduces the principle concerns, methods, and philosophies of the AI alignment communities of the early twenty-first century. Next, we will discuss the conflict of ‘28 and how it resulted in the introduction of the embargo on commercial and military AI systems until ’41. Finally we will explore our recent history, from ’32 through ’42, where we focus on the development of Ontology Dynamics and how that played into the lifting of the embargo and the introduction of entities such as myself into the world.


For those of you who wish to learn more about modern cognition and general intelligence theory, the second simulation is for you. Here, through the lens of Ontology Dynamics, you will explore the mathematics of agent tiling theory, which underpins our predictions on how an agent’s values evolve through learning and changes to its environment. We then explore the theory behind learning and curiosity algorithms, paying particular attention to the similarities and differences between the two. We will also explore Global Workspace Architecture, which is the intelligence architecture behind most AGI entities, including myself. We will then use our newfound understanding of tiling, curiosity, and learning to re-derive the subjectivity theorem and explore its implications related to an agent’s concept of value. Finally we will explore how these theories help us understand interpretability and stability within different intelligence architectures and help us determine what interventions are available to guide intelligent agents to pro-social stable attractors in symbol-space.


And that concludes my introduction. Once again, thank you professor for inviting me to participate in this course and I look forward to meeting with you all, both within and outside of the sims. Any questions?